---
layout: article
title: DRY, OOCSS, and SMACSS
excerpt: Don't Repeat Your CSS
permalink: dry-oocss-smacss
published: true
author: Nathan Ziarek
categories: [css]
references: [www.vanseodesign.com/css/dry-principles/|Vanseo Design, github.com/less/less.js/issues/1177/|GitHub /less/less.js]
---

As part of a modular design library I'm responsible for, I've been doing a lot of digging into how LESS / SASS / Myth / etc. can help create CSS that's maintainable by a large number of different groups and reusable across multplie application types.

Easy, right?

One of the acronyms I keep running into is "DRY":

> The awesome thing about mixins is that they speed up development, keep my work surface clean, I only have to write them once, and I know what the compiled result will be. However, a disadvantage of mixins is that they aren't DRY.

I've been mostly ignoring it, assuming DRY is good, and I'd eventually figure it out based on context. I didn't, and I finally had to break down and look it up.

DRY CSS stands for "Don't Repeat Your CSS", but it's really more of an overall formatting model for writing code. From the [Vanseo Design][0] article:

> DRY CSS comes down to 3 things:
>
> * Group reusable css properties together
> * Name these groups logically
> * Add your selectors to the various css groups

I'm not sure DRY necessarily accomplishes any of those goals, but it lead me to more reading on formatting and CSS-wrting models on the web. 

I'm not sure I agree with the general recommendation of DRY, but the author hits on one things I've found extremely important in my career of CSS-writing:




[0]: http://whitneyhess.com/blog/2011/04/23/youre-not-a-user-experience-designer-if